Explain your motivation for tackling this problem, discuss the data source(s) you are using, and explain the analysis you are performing. 

Introduction: The Biotechnology industry is incredibly dynamic, with hundreds of acquisition or investment deals and tens of billions of dollars being invested every year.  In order to keep up with this fast paced string of events, business professionals investigating a new area must spend many hours pouring over reports to better understand their market.  To solve this problem, I am writing an object-oriented application called BioTechTopics that allows investors, entrepreneuers, and consultant to identify promininent companies & individuals in the biotechnology industry, and assess the sentiment surrounding those individuals.  The user can interact with the corpus either wholistically through topic analysis or through targeted searching with a query.  This application will be useful to pharmaceutical companies and venture capitalists looking to beter understand the markets surrounding their investments, as well as to entreprenuers seeking to understand the sentiment surrounding their products.  Furthermore, BioTechTopics will be useful for marketing or strategy consultants who need a quick representation of prominent people in their client's field.

Data source:  For this pilot project, I used scrapy to scrape 2400 biotech business articles from FierceBiotech.com, resulting in 7Mb of text.  For the complete project, I propose to increase this corpus 10-100 fold.  Text was saved in JSON format and analyzed in Python through the Pandas toolkit.

Analysis: There are two main types of analysis that I propose.  The first is wholistic analysis of the biotechnology industry though Latent Dirichlet Analysis (LDA) of the corpus.  Interestingly, the first topic generated by LDA analysis seems to be liquid biopsy.  As can be seen in the first wordcloud figure in the notebook, several words related to liquid biopsy are mentioned, including blood test, blood fingerprick, and Theranos.  Liquid biopsy is an exciting emerging technique where the presence of cancer and/or mutated genes are detected by sampling and sequencing the patient's blood.  I hypothesize that future analysis will probably show a negative sentiment around Theranos (which has dissolved) but a positive sentiment around liquid biopsy.

The user can also interact with the corpus by submitting a query, and the algorithm returns prominent individuals in that field.  The basic procedure is that (1) a tfidf approach retrieves documents related to the user's query, (2) TextRank is used to extract keywords from the retrieved documents, and (3) named entity recognition also identifies individuals and companies from the retreived documents.  The overlap between the lists keywords and named entities in a document was used to identify prominent individuals related to the user's query.  An example of this is shown in the  for the query "microbiome".  An explanation of some of the returned named entities are given in the notebook.

Conclusion: In summary, the Biotechnology industry is incredibly fast pased and ever-chaning.  We need a better way to aggregate and analyze all of the business news surrounding this industry.  BioTechTopics will allow users to quickly and easily identify prominent companies and individuals in their field and assess the business world's sentiment surrounding those entities.
